They said, “You’ve got to go to Alaska
—one of the greatest assignments
that you can be provided from the branch.”
And then he popped up with the question,
he said,
“Have you ever thought of going to Alaska?”
And we said,
“Well, should we?”
No!
We definitely had to pray about it
and, Scripturally, look up some things.
And we talked to two couples
that we knew that had served in Alaska.
You’re assigned to the people,
and if you focus on that,
then you’ll find joy
in your assignment no matter where it is.
I also like the spirit of Isaiah
where Jehovah asks: “Whom shall I send?”
And without a hesitation,
Isaiah pipes up: “Here I am! Send me!”
He was just willing to be sent.
And then there were the logistics of figuring out
how to simplify and how to actually get up there.
It definitely takes courage to take an assignment
where you’re out of your comfort zone.
We might have needed some courage
for the assignment that we took,
but we were so impressed with the courage
that the other brothers demonstrated.
There were a total
of 16 different special pioneers
that were assigned,
and 6 of them
had never experienced a winter,
and they’re being sent
into the harshest of climates
—the harshest of winters in northern Alaska.
When we saw these young men,
without hesitation,
going to very unique places
out of their comfort zone
—it inspired us.
And it wasn’t just a harsh climate,
but it was darkness, no congregation—
—isolation—
—none of their friends, none of their family there.
They would get a taxi cab to drive them
to the farthest part
of their territory for that particular day,
drop them off,
and then they would work from that location
back to their hotel.
I would say that one
of the blessings that we enjoyed
was seeing how Jehovah
opened up the language group.
Jehovah chose the right ones
to get the first tract
translated into the Yupik language.
One of the sisters who was asked to translate
was intimidated because she did not know
how to read or write the language.
Contemplating Noah gave her the courage
to fulfill her assignment
because she, like Noah, “did just so.”
You know the scripture
that says ‘the blessings of Jehovah,
that is what makes rich.’
That is so true.
We could have stayed
in Jersey in our little apartment,
maybe even by now have a comfortable living.
But what really makes life worth living
is the people and friends you have.
As it was once said,
“You can’t outgive Jehovah.”
If anyone is considering going through a door
that Jehovah has opened up for them,
don’t hesitate.
You’ve got the support of Jehovah,
unseen angels, His spirit, and the brotherhood.
And the blessings are just waiting for you.
On one occasion,
my son called me on the phone and said:
“Dad, come quickly!
They kidnapped John!”
During a midweek meeting,
three armed men
showed up at the Kingdom Hall.
They threatened to harm the brothers,
their families, or the congregation
unless they received
a considerable sum of money.
I got to the Kingdom Hall,
and when I opened the car door,
a kidnapper was there waiting for me.
They took me
to an abandoned lot and left me there,
but they took my car.
It’s dangerous to preach
in many parts of Mexico City,
since we’re in danger
of being robbed at gunpoint.
For instance, I once witnessed a shooting.
My husband has been mugged.
These kinds of things
don’t happen just in Mexico;
they happen all over the world.
At the meetings,
we had as many as 20 attendants
at the doors of the Kingdom Hall
so that the congregation would feel safe.
When the meeting starts, the doors are closed.
But we keep on the lookout,
and if somebody wants to come in,
we make sure that they will not pose
a threat to the congregation.
When we’re preaching from house to house,
we try to stay together as a group.
And we’re aware of our surroundings,
watching out for any dangers.
We’re always holding publications,
like a magazine or a Bible.
It helps us because people identify us
as Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I try not to have any valuables on me,
like a cell phone or jewelry.
It’s a very productive territory
even though it is such a dangerous area.
A lot of people are coming to know Jehovah.
While I was in the car with the kidnapper,
he asked me what the difference
is between Jehovah’s Witnesses and Christians.
I didn’t know I would have
the opportunity to preach, but I did.
When life gives you lemons,
you make lemonade.
I greatly admire the sisters that go out in service
—the courage they show—
because even though their territories
are difficult, dangerous,
they will not give up in this important work.
For them, giving up is not an option.
And I will never give up either.
Crime happens and will continue to happen.
But we’re determined to serve Jehovah,
no matter what.
We should not be afraid
of those who kill the body.
If we were to face this situation again,
the congregation would not stop preaching.
They love Jehovah so much.
And they truly understand that their neighbors
are also suffering from crime,
so they put forth much effort
to share a message of hope.
No, I will not stop preaching.
This work must go on
whether there’s violence or not.